The second person we interviewed is Professor Kimmo Kansanen of the IES at NTNU. He is a professor in the course TTT4115, communications theory. He graduated from the University of Oulu, Finland, and has been working for NTNU as “a post-doctoral one or another” since 2006.
Professor Kansanen focused on different things than Professor Werner. He did mention that students sometimes fall asleep in lectures, but didn’t find it a large problem. His focus was more on deliverables: “We have problems with mathematics. The ways of typing in formulas on a computer are anathema to effectivity. It’s much better to write by hand, but then we get the problem that we don’t understand some of the students’ handwritings. We need something that lets you write equations as easily as by hand, and as legible as LaTeX”. He indicated that this was an equally large problem on the exam.
“Once you have the students’ equations on an electronic form, you can do anything. But making them legible should be the first step”, he continues.
He also remembers another problem: “Graphics. Visualising theoretical knowledge and mathematics is hard, and takes a long time. Usually we resort to Matlab, but that takes a long time to write, and is hard to integrate in the lecturing. Perhaps students could have made their own visualisations, but we don’t have any tools to help them with it. Working with Matlab is very useful, but it’s very hard to test, even though it is very relevant in the industry”. In practice, they often end up having deliverables which end with making such a visualisation. However, Professor Kansanen finds it hard to test the students’ knowledge and skill in professional tools: “You always learn some basic tools, but they are impossible to test on a pen-and-paper exam. Perhaps a project could have been used. In any case, some way to test students in Matlab would have been nice”.
It seems like most of Professor Kansanen’s problems are in regards to evaluating the skills and knowledge of the students. Especially the exam is suboptimal, because its form often makes it hard to read, and because the digital alternatives aren’t good enough to test specific, industry-relevant skills like Matlab. However, legibility is a problem on all hand-written deliverables. Additionally, he finds that visualizing theoretical knowledge can be very time consuming.

